# Document Ready Ordering

The way this Javascripts block thing works is that it puts our Javascript right after the Javascript that's in our base layout. If you view the source, just to prove that. Down at the bottom of the page ... You'll see jQuary was dropped, and then our Javascript. Cool. I put this at the bottom of the page for performance reasons, so that downloading these scripts doesn't block the loading on the page.

There's some argument on whether putting something in the bottom of the page or the top of the page is better, but it should work either place. Right? If I actually move this block Javascripts up into my header, that should still work just fine. Right? If I go over here and refresh, we still see Javascript, Javascript, and then our Javascript right there. Let's try it out. Refresh the page, click delete, and it doesn't work. For a lot of you, this is probably obvious why, but I want to point it out.

Since our Javascript is running in the header of the page, it means that at this exact moment, it looks for all elements with the js-delete-rep-log class. Well, at this point, the rest of the html page is not loaded yet, so it finds exactly zero items. This is the reason why you are already always using the famous document.ready block. We move our coding inside of it, and refresh. Now, the delete link works again.

You already know you need to use this, but don't take it for granted. This is what it does. Document.ready is fired after the dom fully loads. It's approximately equal to putting your Javascript code at the absolute bottom of the page. It means that our Javascript code will work no mater where it lives. For example, if we wanted to, we could take the script tag, delete it from there, and actually stick it right in the middle of our page.

At this point in the source, we have our script tags up top, but then our Javascript actually sits right in the middle of the page. Time for your refresh, that still works just fine. Of course, the only problem with that is if someone comes along and decides, Hey, you know what? We should really put our Javascripts in the footer. Now, we have a different problem. Our Javascripts are not in the top, or the head, anymore. They're now down here at the absolute bottom. We refresh the page, we immediately get the error dollar sign is not defined.

That's when we run our code. Again, this makes perfect sense. As it loads the page, it sees this dollar sign, but it hasn't actually downloaded the jQuary library. That strip tag is still further down on the page. The two things that you have to think about is, I need any Javascript that I depend on to be before me., but then when I actually go and start doing my code that selects elements on the page, that needs to happen at the bottom of the page. Which we can always guarantee will happen by doing document.ready. Let's put our Javascripts back, and this now says, Whether my Javascripter is at the bottom of the page, or at the top of the page, let's always put our Javascript right after it. Go back, refresh, and life is good again.
