# DOM Element Object

Next goal. When I click this little trash icon, eventually we want to make an ajax call, but for now, let's just see if we can turn it red. In our JavaScript code, we need to figure out which js-delete-rep-log item was clicked, and only change the background of that one to red. You probably commonly do this by using the this variable, but don't. Wait on that. We're going to talk about that later. Another way, in some ways, a better way to figure out which element was just clicked, is to use our event e argument. We can say $(e.target), which is a key on the event argument which points to the element that was clicked, .addclass('text-danger'). Cool? Go back, refresh. There it is!

This is interesting. What is this the e.target thing exactly that we wrap in jQuerry? Well let's find out. It's console.log(e.target). Refresh. Click on those links. It just prints it out, the HTML itself, which is not entirely honest. What this e.target is, is a DOM element object. If you google for that, you can find the w3schools page on it. Every single element on the page is actually an object, a JavaScript object. Even though my debugging tool is printing this out like a string, that's just for convenience. It's actually an object, which means it has properties, it has methods on it that we can call, which is really cool. The w3schools site shows you all of the properties and methods that you can call on it.

There's another way that you can figure out what methods it has on it. Go back and change your console.log to console.dir and go back and refresh. Now, click a link and check this out. It still gives you some information about what the element is, but now when you expand it, [inaudible 00:03:43] it's got this huge list of all of the properties and methods that are on that object, proving that this is actually an object, including one called ClassName, which is a property we're going to use in a second. If you're not familiar with it, console.dir does exactly this. A lot of times console.log gives you a string representation of something, console.dir tries to give you a tree of what that thing actually is, awesome little tool.

How is e.target, which is the DOM element object, and the jQuerry object, meaning either the element that we surrounded with $ or perhaps even an object by table, how are those different? My understanding is that table represents a DOM element and also e.target represents an element on the page. Are these the same thing or are these different? Well turns out they are a bit different. Whenever you have a jQuerry object like $table, or $e.target, that actually represents an array of elements, even though you might only have one element. Let me share what I mean. Let's do console.log. We'll keep printing out e.target. [inaudible 00:05:30], check this out. $(e.target)[0] === e.target. Go back and refresh and click one of the links, that returns true. The jQuerry object, it is an object, but it's an object that holds an array of DOM element. You can actually access those DOM elements by using the index 01234. That is literally the same object memory as the DOM element. The jQuerry object just wraps the DOM element object.

Another way to look at this is ... This is even true if we search for objects. Let's say we search for all fa-trash objects. Let's grab the 5 index and see if that is equal to e.target. In theory, that should only return true when we click the sixth trash icon. I'll scroll back at [2] === e.target. Now on refresh we get false, false, and then true, because we clicked the third item which is index 2. This is all a fancy way of getting us to understand what a DOM element object is.

When we want to add a [inaudible 00:07:29] to something, we usually use the jQuerry object and say add pass to it, but now we know we can if we want to, avoid jQuerry. We could say, e.target.className, which is a proper noun ClassName, = e.target.className + ' text-danger'. Try that out, refresh, and it works perfectly. It's not quite as elegant as the jQuerry object, and if you're dealing with older browsers, you could always have problems dealing with the lower level parts of the browser, but feel empowered guys. All right, let's get rid of that, and go back to our jQuerry way.
