# Window Global Vars

Our current problem is, once you created this fancy self-executing block inside of here, we don't have access to RepLogApp anymore. How can we get access to RepLogApp? Very simple. Instead of saying var RepLogApp, say window.RepLogApp. Now index, I'll delete the counts about log on the helper. Go back, refresh, and it works. No error down here and our delete works.

What the heck was that? It turns out, when you're executing java script in a browser, which probably for you is always, but java script can also be executed on your server, and we're going to talk about that in future tutorials. When you're in a browser, you always have access to a global window variable. In fact, it's more than that. This window variable holds all of the global variables. Meaning, if you set a key on the window object, the RepLog key becomes a global variable anywhere. Meaning, anywhere else, you can simply say RepLogApp and what that is actually fetching is window.RepLogApp, but more on that in a second.

There's one other thing I want to talk about with our self executing functions. Inside of our self executing functions, obviously we have access to any global variables like window, or any other global variables. Often, instead of relying on the global variables, it's considered a best practice to actually pass yourself the variables that you need. It's a little weird, but let me show you what I mean. Right now, inside of our self-executing function, we're using two global variables. We're using window and we're also using jQuerry.

Specifically we're using the $ function. There it is with $.ajax. We can do, is at the bottom, when we have open parenthesis, closed parenthesis, these are actually the arguments we're passing to our self-executing function. Here, outside of the self-executing block, we'll reference the window function and we'll reference the jQuerry object. We'll pass those as arguments right here. We'll say window, and $.

There are two advantages to do doing this. You don't have to do this, but one is that you can alias the variables. Obviously, we can say jQuerry down here, which is what the jQuerry variable's always known as. Now up here, we can alias it as $. The second thing is, is it sort of protects you from making a really bad mistake. Inside of your self-executing function, if I now said $=null, that wouldn't overwrite the jQuerry object globally. It would just change the local $ variable.

Anyways, you will see this kind of thing in third party libraries all the time, so I wanted you to see it. Now, back to the window variable. Inside index the [inaudible 00:03:55], let's console.log our window variable. The cool thing about this is, this should tell us all of our global variables that we have in our entire system. Boom, there it is, this huge function, object here, including $ and jQuerry object. If you go down to the R's, you will find our RepLog object as well. RepLogApp. This is a cool way to figure out what all of your global variables are.

Now notice, what's not here, as expected, is we don't have Helper. There's no Helper. We know how to check this out. Go back into RepLogApp, find Helper, and remove the var. You've probably been taught that that's a bad practice and that's true, but you may not realize exactly what it does. If you refresh now and open window, check this out. All of sudden, there is a Helper function. It's actually after the HTML, even though that doesn't make a lot of sense. Helper. If you forget the var variable, which you shouldn't, what it actually does is it makes it a global variable by setting it on the window object.

One other kind of interesting thing about the window variable is that when you're in the global context, it's actually equal to this. If you refresh that, you will get true. If you're not inside of any functions or inside an object, window is actually your this variable. Though, you probably won't take advantage of that.

Back in our RepLogApp, forgetting this var is actually a mistake. We should not be allowed to do this, but JavaScript is friendly, and it allows us to do this. You can tell it to be less friendly, it's actually a really good idea. On top of your RepLogApp file inside quotes, say use strict. What that does is it activates a more strict parsing of this file. Now, certain things that were allowed before, won't be allowed now. If you refresh, you'll see, Uncut reference. Helper is not defined, because it's no longer taking the Helper variable down here, and setting it on as a global object. Even [inaudible 00:07:46] still aren't realized, it says unresolved variable or type Helper. It says, hey, I've never seen this Helper variable before. It was never declared with a var variable. We'll re-add var. Now life is good.
