# Callback Props

Coming soon...

So we're keeping track of our highlighted row ID state in our top level components and then we're passing it down to our child component as a prop and then we are reading that prop and using it to render on the page. And this all works really well until we go back and try to click one of our rose. None of our console, we see a gigantic air says underscore this too. That handle real quick is not a function, which is a funny here. But what is referring to is in rep log list. There is no handle row click method. Look, we're saying this, that handle real quick, uh, when you meant to call that on rep log app, that's actually the component that holds that. 

So there's a very important thing that's happening here. The parent, your parent component passes data down into your child via props. Your child component is really dumb. All it does is received the props and render them. Important thing here is the child never communicates back up to the parent. In fact, this rep log list component doesn't even know who its parent is. In theory, we could use this rep log list in 10 different places on our app from with 10 different parents, so the obvious problem here is unclick. We need to update the highlighted row wise, these state in the parent components. So how can a child component update these state of apparent components? My answer is it can't. Again, the child component doesn't even know who his parents is and furthermore it doesn't even know that highlighted row id is stored in state anywhere. It just says, I don't know, somebody passes me this highlighted row id prop and I use it. I don't know and don't care whether or not that stored in state. 

So how do we solve this problem? One the same way that we pass data from our parent component into our child component, we can also pass call back functions from the parent to the child. That should be called when certain interactions happened in the child. Check this out. First back up in handled real quick. I'm going to remove our event argument, which we weren't using any ways. Now down inside of rep log list, I'm going to use multiple lines here in, let's pass in another prop called on row click just making that up and we'll say, we'll set this to this dot handled real quick. Don't call the function, just pass the function as a reference. So suddenly now in our child components, we have a new handle row click prop. So I'm going to use the referencing restructuring to get that as a variable. And then down here on click, we know nothing about state. We are, we are dumb, but we know that we're past this, uh, on sweat. We use the destruction and once again to read out that on row click prop. Now we may not know anything about there being state that needs to be updated. We do know that we're now passing on row click prop and that when our roe is click, this is a method that we should call. 

So we'll pass on real quick and we'll pass it rep log.id. 

And that's it. When we click on the row, it will execute the callback that's controlled by our parent. The parent maintains complete control. Now, if you go back and refresh and try this, it still doesn't work. If you've got a console, it's another air cannot read property sets so we didn't do it earlier, but whenever you have a callback function like this, you're going to want to guarantee that the, this keyword is, uh, is bound to this by going into the constructor in saying this, that handled real quick equals this dot handle real quick dot find this some matter who calls us method in any way. This is going to refer to the rep log APP. Someone refresh. Once again, our application works. You've just seen a massively important pattern. We have state on top level, and not only do we pass the data down into our child elements, but we also pass any call backs that we want into this child elements. Now, what I want you to realize here is that because we've like rep, log list is now so dumb. No, I'll talk about that later.