# Collection

Coming soon...

Okay, let's get to work. This rep log APP component eventually needs to look like this down here with this table and with this form, so to get us started, let's actually go back and do our templates, lift index dot html Twig, and you can actually see all the markup, the table and down here we include a form for our old application, so I'm actually going to copy that entire Dev, which is the entire application. Then I'm going to go back to rep log APP 

and replace our content in there with that paste that, but we're not going to worry about the formula. Obviously this is tweaked code, so I'm going to delete that form down there. Then because I liked my heart feature, I'm actually going to kind of put that code back in there, that on one line and then we will print our heart variable. Cool. Now one very crazy thing just happened invisibly. One we pasted that in thanks to PHP storm, check out this class name equals table table striped. If you look at our template, it was class because that's what it's supposed to be. Well, when he. When you use JSX, you can't actually use the class keyword. You can see it actually being highlighted here. Unknown property class class can't be used internally by jsx because class is a key word inside of javascript. There's no other weird attributes like this, but class can't be class. 

It must be class name inside of javascript. Ultimately on the page, of course, that's going to render as a class attribute. Petri Storm, a smart enough that when we paste it in there, it automatically converted their class to the class name for us, which was pretty cool. Now we can also clean up a bit. We don't need this js rep log table that was used by the old javascript and then sit down here sending for his total weight. This is the column that actually prints out the total weight on the bottom right. Now we're just going to empty that t h and put a big old to do on there. Now to make this look a little more realistic inside the [inaudible] body, let's at least hack in one fake a row here with just some invented data 

and I'll just put dot, dot, dot for that last column because that last column is the one that will eventually hold this delete icon, but let's just get it rendering right now. So cool. So there's nothing fancy about this. This is actually just normal, hard coded html, but it's super easy to build inside of Jsx. And when we go over and refresh, hey, pretty quickly our react applications starting to look pretty sweet. Now eventually these rep logs down here in our, in our existing application, these poll from the database, we actually have a database full of rep logs and as soon as the page renders it actually makes an Ajax request, but you can see down here to get that data 

and then we render in this table. So obviously eventually we're going to want to do the same thing for our application where we are going to load those rep logs from Ajax. But for now, but to get us started, I'm actually just going to hard code some in here, so right inside my render function I'm going to create a new constant called rep logs, so it's gonna fake three rep logs with Id, item label, and total weight lifted fields. Now what we want to do down here instead of our ti body is we want to actually convert each rep log into a tr react element with the data inside of it. To do that, you're going to see a really common pattern, which feels a little bit weird for sometimes for php developers we're going, I'm going to create a new constant here called rep log elements, and we're going to set that to rep logs dot Knapp, and I'm going to pass that a call back that accepts a rep log arguments, and then we'll use the Arrow function right here. To build our callback. Inside of this, we're actually going to return a react element via jsx. Something to do a return. We use multiple lines, so I'll use the parentheses. 

Then inside each rep log is going to have its own wrote, so we'll use a t r element is around stuff, and then we're just going to build that rope, so we'll say td and then here we'll use the javascript code to say rep log dot item label. Now if you're not familiar with rep logs dot map, what it does, it loops over every element in rep logs and whatever the function and calls this function, whatever this function returns goes into the new rep log element array. So ultimately reblog elements will contain a bunch of elements. So the TD, and this is we'll say rep log, it's actually, it's actually look here, if you look at our rows here, when you had what, how many times, and wait, so what is I didn't label? Then we need rep log that reps for the number of times almost say rep log, that total weight lifted, and finally the last one is just a delete column and it was due Dash Dash, Dash. Now you notice the tr is a little warning on it saying missing key prop. We're going to see that in a second. Just ignore that for now, so we now have an array of react elements, 

which is pretty sweet because now we can go down here and replace our hardcore to tr with wait for it. Just that element printed. Yeah, it looks crazy, but that's actually going to render that array of rep log elements. So try it, move back, refresh your page, and it works. It's actually printing actually printing each row now immediately. We can't celebrate too much because we see a big air down here. It says, warning, each child in an array should have a unique key prop. And actually this is what's, 

um, 

PHP storm was trying to warn us here. So here's the deal. Eventually with react, we're going to be doing really cool things where we changed, where things change in the Ui updates automatically whenever you have a collection of items like this, if the data on one of them updates react isn't really sure which road update. And sometimes you know, maybe if this one had suddenly changes to 1:50, it could in theory update that on the wrong road. What it basically needs is for you to give it a kind of each row, each element a unique key, so that means when you see this area, you want to go to the outer most elements here and you need to add a little key attribute here. This needs to be set to something that is unique and won't change, so the obvious choices to use rep log, that id something that will always stay the same. This is just basically a chore that you need to always do when you render collections. So this time you go back and refresh. We don't notice any difference, but the warning goes away. 

Alright, 

last thing here is that it's really cool how we could use the map function up here to create rep log elements and then render them down here. But the downside of this is that if you're kind of looking at your markup down here, you all of a sudden see this big, this variable, and you're not really sure what that is and you have to scroll up to see what that actual element is whenever possible. It's nice to be able to kind of keep your markup down inside the markup, so to do that I'm actually going to go up and copy my rep logs dot map part, then delete the rep log element variable entirely. Then I'm literally going to go down here and I'm going to pace that and I'll kind of fix my indentation. 

It's really the same thing. We are going to loop over rep logs there ultimately to return an array of reblog elements and then you can see we're going to print them. So if you go back and refresh it works perfectly and at first the syntax looks a little bit weird. It's one of the hard things about working with react, but this works just fine and it's very obvious the element that we have instead of the t body and actually to make it even simpler and actually there's an even simpler so. So you can use which again, if you're still getting used to the Arrow functions like this, this next syntax might look a little bit weird. So if it's too weird, if you don't use it when you have an Arrow function, usually surrounded with open, curly and curly, and then you have the body of your function side. However, if all you need to do inside of your Arrow function has returned something, you can actually remove the curly brace and just have the body of the function. I have one extra curly brace there. What that means is call set this to a function, 

and 

this man is, is set this to a function that returns. 

Yeah, 

this jsx element right there. Listen, refresh, we go back in, it works. These are the kinds of like little subtle things in react that you don't necessarily need to do. I don't want you to take it easy because a lot of times these sin taxes are what ends up making them react to look difficult when it's not really that big of a deal.