# Jsx

Coming soon...

So this system of creating react element objects and putting react element objects inside of objects to create your dom tree and then rendering it is a really cool idea. We've only just started to scratch the surface of its potential, but it's a total pain to. Right. You can imagine if we needed another element instead of the span, we'd have to have another react, that creative element forever and ever and ever and it would be awful. What would be really cool is if instead we could just write html in here, like for example, literally what if we could do this? What if we said Consta l equals, and then we just wrote an h, two tag lifts stuff. Then we had a span tag with the heart in the middle and then we added the closing h two tag. I mean that's effectively what it's building a javascript, but of course this is not real javascript code. This is me just hacking html right into the middle of my javascript file and no surprise php storm is super angry and if you switch back to a yarn, yeah, it's super unhappy as well. Unexpected token. Well, it turns out that this syntax actually is legal. 

We just need to teach Babel. Remember, Babel is the tool that transliterates that understands our javascript and writes it into older versions. For older browsers, we can teach babble to understand the syntax, how well for using web encore like we are. 

I need to do is go into it and say that enable react preset as referring to a Babel preset, a rule that understands how to how the syntax works because we just updated our webpack file. You then need to go rerun encore, which will actually fail because it's also going to tell you that you need to install a new package babble, react preset, so a copy of that, and then we install that. By the way, pretty soon, that package name is going to become at Babel slash preset dash react, but it's going to do the exact same thing as before. Awesome, and that's done. That's rerun our watch in this time. Oh, it fails again, but this is my fault because I haven't deleted my old react. That create element and now build successful. Webpack actually sees this. Apple sees us as real code and check this out. If we move over, move over and refresh it works. We get the exact same output as before age two and our span inside of here. Now here's the really important part, check out our log because remember we're logging the element at the bottom. It is the exact same thing we had before. It's a reactive element in inside it has two children which are the string and the other react element. 

This special syntax is called J s x and allows you to write html right inside of your javascript and when you do it in react, I'll go. I'll hit undo here. This jsx actually behind the scenes becomes the same thing as up here. It uses react that create element behind the scenes, so we get the same output. It's just way less. It's just way, way prettier. Now of course a PHP storm hates this and that's not going to be okay, but you can already see on top it's saying switch language version to react jsx switch or dismiss so we can hit switch there. So instead of hitting a switch there, just in case you missed that message, I'll do it a different way. Go to peace, restart. I'm going to preferences, search for JSX 

and under languages and frameworks. Java script changes your javascript format from ecmascript two, react jsx and that hit okay. That tells your editor that you were using the jsx format so it should understand it and boom, you can see like that it is instantly happy, so it was totally legal to you, Jay Jsx, and we're going to use it extensively, but remember behind the scenes, this is just creating those nice little react elements and I want to remember that so we can kind of keep things simple in our minds. Now remember a few minutes ago we installed the ies Linden Library was actually an additional set of rules that we can apply to our ESL. Let that are special to react and this is going to give you all kinds of really nice notices and warnings when you're using react. So I'm gonna switch back over to my terminal, go to my open terminal and run yarn, add e es lint, that plugin dash react dash, dash depth, perfect one that finishes the excellent to use that. Go to your ies lint that, that Eastland ours at our seat, that js file, and afterwards to the extents part, add a new plugin, colon react slash recommended. 

Okay. 

That was a whole new set of rules in there and you won't see them yet in here. But as we start to see as we start to see rules coming from that, I'll point them out. So at this point we're starting to see little bit of how react is actually used, but to really see it, we need to create something called a components.