# Props

Coming soon...

Right now these components are component is really static. What I mean is there, there's no variables at all. When we rented this component, we get this exact market no matter what. Now if components are kind of like php classes, then one of the things we can do in php is when we instantiate classes, we can pass those. We can instantiate classes with different arguments to make those objects act differently and we can actually do the exact same thing with components. We can pass in different variables to the components when they're instantiated to make them rendered different, different things. So first 

just a quick note, when you actually use the jsx syntax on a component that actually creates a new instance of that component. So we can actually create multiple rep log app objects independent of each other and render them anywhere on the page. And that's hugely powerful. Now check this out. Let's suppose that we want to be able to use our rep log app and multiple places and sometimes we want these star icon Emoji and sometimes we don't want the star Emoji, so we need to be able to pass in a flag that says whether or not we're going to run to that star. So inside of our main, our rep log app, react, let's create a new should show heart constant set to true the number below and render. I'm actually just gonna pass us. Put this onto multiple lines there for readability. Now, how can we pass this? Should show heart into a rep log app by adding attributes or what? Look like html attributes. So let's create, let's pass a new attribute called with heart, which I'm just making up set two and here is a really important and then say should show heart. Now something amazing just happened. We are inside of Jsx land on this line. 

And when you're in Jsx, you know, if I had said with heart equals food, then you know, we understand what that means, but whenever you're in Jsx, if you do an open curly brace that puts you into javascript land, which is really important because then you can do whatever you want, you can say should show heart, uh, and, and false or whatever javascript logic you want inside of there, they're open curly brace puts us into javascript. No, I keep calling this thing in attribute, but in react, this is actually known as a prop. You can kind of think of it as we're passing this as an argument when it instantiates our rep log app components inside of rep log app, we can access props via a. This arrow prompts property. Check this out. I'm going to get a new property here in render called heart, and I'm going to send it to an open. 

Oh, 

instead of render, I'm going to say let heart equals empty quotes. Then here we can say if this Arrow props Arrow with heart referencing that with heart prop that we pass it in here. If that's true, then we're actually gonna reassign heart to a jsx element. Actually, this jsx element down here with the span, some copy our heart icon there, paste here, and hit enter, so we're actually setting this heart to eight, what we know as a react element. Now notice when we say this or approximate with heart, it's giving us an error and it says something about missing prop validation. We're going to talk about that later. For now, you can totally ignore that. 

Now, down on our return statement, just for clarity, I'm actually going to do a parentheses and hit enter and then do another parentheses. When you use a presidency and jsx like this, it just allows you to put the jsx onto multiple lines if you want to, which is just for readability. You'll send me to do that quite a lot. Now, instead of our span here, while you want to do is we actually want to print your heart variable. So remember in Jsx you can do open curly, close, curly, and inside you can say heart. So that's either going to be an empty string or it's going to be this react element based on our, based on what we pass in. So since right now with heart is equal to true, why don't we go over it and refresh it actually works in shows. True. So let's see. Let's go and change this really quick to false. Go back, refresh and it's gone. So to really prove the point here, I'll change that back to true. We could actually render multiple elements. So I'm gonna copy my rep log app and then I'm going to say with heart equals false. Now as soon as I say that, you can actually see that Westpac gives me an error and if I moved back over and look, it says adjacent jsx elements must be wrapped in an closing tag. 

And what this basically means is that when you were, is that whenever you're creating a jsx structure, there always needs to be a single top level elements. Like for example, in rep log APP, the top of an element is the [inaudible]. So for example, to fix this, we could actually put a div super simple. Then I'll just use multiple lines here and div open. I have my comment in the wrong spot 

and Oh, I completely forgot my false. There's javascript. So let me wrap that and awesome. Webpack is happy again and if we go back and refresh asks, you can see our components being rendered on the page twice and we have two separate instances that we passed. Two different prompts into props are going to be one of the most important things that we talk about with react. It's the way that we are going to change the behavior and create really dynamic, uh, interfaces. Now we don't actually need to have those rep blog apps. So I'm going to copy the original one and then we'll put that one back and then we are back to just one list up.