# React Create Element

Coming soon...

Okay, we have our file, so first thing we need to do obviously is actually install react yarn, add, react, and also another package called react dash, Dash, Dash, Dev. React is the react core. React to dom is a way to is another tool that allows you to actually take your react in, use it in a web context. Now that may seem a little weird because you might wonder where else would you use react, but you can actually use react on this in other places like server side rendering. All right, once that's done, 

incident reblog react. Let's first day in fort react from react that still look pretty familiar. We're just importing that library into our file. Now, the idea of react is that you create elements which aren't really s which art objects that represent the DM. You can then render those elements on the page. Of course, the real magic of react is that it's going to automatically update the dom when those elements change, but we'll get to that. So first I want to use react and as a lowest level way. So I'm gonna Create Credit, new El variable set to react that create element, and we're gonna make an h two tag because we basically want to 

replicate our h two tag there. So fast two, that's the elements you want for the second argument passing note we'll talk about, that's called props, but we're gonna. Talk about that later. And then the third, fourth, fifth arguments, all the rest of the arguments are things that you want to put inside of that tag. So we'll say lift history and we'll add an exclamation point for now. I'm just going to console that long because I want you to see that this is just a very simple object. It's not being rendered to the screen in any way. We just have this react element object and it contains some information in it about what we want to print on the page. So it's a representation of an element on the page, but it doesn't actually live on the page yet to put it on the page, we use react dom. So once again, let's go back to our index dot html dot twig, because we need to put a new spot on this page where our element can be rendered. So our existing APP has rendered in this div right here. So if I'm this, let's add a div classicals rope and we'll add a new day with an id of how about lyft stuff app. 

Then just to make sure our apps are totally separated, let's add some br tags and I'll also add an hr tech. I'll give it some separation. So we created this empty targets that we can build our application into that target. So I'm going to copy that ID name. Next we can import react, you dumb from react dash DM and down here we can say react dom, that render and here we're going to print the element that we want to render l and then we're gonna say document that get element by ID. That's just raw normal javascript and we're at a pace in our ID. So step one is we can create this very simple element to object. Then we use react dominant to say actually put that element on the page, so foot back and refresh. Hello, we have our very first, but I know very, very simple little tiny react app. Not very impressive yet. Now of course in a real application we're going to have elements and other elements inside of it are real application is going to have a tree of elements that looks a lot like how we nest things together in html. So how could I nest an element inside of this age to well first let me break things onto multiple lines. 

The answer is by adding more and more arguments on the end, every time I add a new argument on the end that becomes a new child that goes into that element. So if I wanted to create a span element, for example, we could say react. That creative element, once again here, we'll do a span past that same. No for prompts and inside. How about let's put a little heart icon surrounded in quotes. Of course, 

perfect. And once again I'm going to console that log, that element. We can flip back, refresh, and we get the exact structure you want just to prove it. I'll inspect element and check that we have an [inaudible] as lift history inside it. Then it has a span inside of that and if you look at the dump to elements, you can say, here is our react. Then aside of it, it has something called children and the children and one of the child as a text in. The other one is yet again in another react elements, so this has reacted to very low level. I know it's not very realistic, but we're going to build from here, but ultimately behind you're really. You're just creating these react to elements and putting them inside of each other and then rendering them to the page. Now, unfortunately, this is a huge pain in the butt. You can imagine how ugly they would be as we get nested deeper and deeper and deeper. That's why I react. Comes with a really cool feature called J. s x.