# React Component

Coming soon...

So we already know that we have this idea of reactive elements and we can render them react, has a much more important concept called air react components, which is something, and it looks like this credit class called rep log app and have it extend something called react dot components. A class that extends react component only needs to have one function called render and then render your going to return whatever elements you want to. So in this case I'm going to copy my jsx for above and here we're going to say return and paste that. Hello, I'm actually going to console dot log and here we're actually going to treat our rep log app as if it is an element. So I'm going to say rep log app, just like that. Now side note your. There is one rule about react components and they have to have an upper case letter to begin with, which is how react tells them apart from normal html elements. Totally not that important. Then down here, instead of rendering just an element, we're actually going to render our rep log app. Now, if you go back and refresh, awesome, we get the exact same thing as before and check this out. If you look at what's logged, it's once again a react element. 

This react component thing is something we're going to use a lot in react, but I don't want to, but it's a really simple concept. Much like how PHP classes allow us to group code together and give it a name that makes sense to our business. React components allow you to do this for the Ui. So here what we've done is we've actually created some Ui elements and me giving them a name rep log app and we can run around and 

render that 

because we're not and render that rep log app and it will render the components inside of it. So a simple idea, but it's going to become very important and what we do now, a couple of small things of housekeeping. Notice that component is a property on the react object. You don't have to do this, but very commonly you're going to see react imported like this, react, then curly braces and then components, and when you do this, you can just say rep log APP extends components. Now this is one of the hard things about react as you commonly see react code using newer syntaxes and very aggressive ways. The react module exports a single object called react, but you can also just export in individual parts of it. So because there was a component key, we can actually describe the component. Part of it's this is this, having these curly braces around here is called the destructuring syntax and it basically says, I want to grab the component he off of react and assign it to this component variable. It's a really a meaningless change, but you're gonna see this a lot and I want you to understand what's going on. Totally not necessary. Also in the same way, you'll notice that on react dom, 

we're only using the render method so we can actually do the same thing here. Instead of importing all react dom, we can just import render from react dumb. Down here, we can just use the render function. This one is actually a little bit more important because a tool like webpack should be smart enough to perform something called tree shaking, which is a fancy way of saying it will only include the render code and in our final javascript it won't include anything else from the react down module. So again, you're going to see this. I mostly don't want it to confuse you. These are all different ways to import different parts of those libraries. They also noticed that it looks like react as no longer being used, like that's an unused import. It's actually not because remember when use JSX, that ultimately turns into react, that create element. So once this jsx is parsed, it actually strangely enough, will ultimately need the react to be imported because of that reason. And if you go back and refresh right now just to make sure it works. Yep. Everything still looks good. Now again, we're gonna be talking a lot about not only how did you react, but like good design patterns. So normally what you're going to have is you're going to create one component per file. So I'm actually going to create in my assets directory js directory. I'm going to create a new directory for the rest of my application called Rep log. And then inside of here I'm going to create a new file called Rep log app that then I'm going to copy our components into that file 

now so we know with modern javascript, but we're gonna want to do is actually export a value from this. So I'm actually going to say 

export. Oh, 

the paste into here. Now notice some weird thing happened. I copied the class and when I pasted it in the actually put the import there for me. That's a little bit of php storm magic, but you'll also notice that it's got a little eastland air here. It says react and must be in scope when using jsx. That's actually what we just talked about. So actually this really needs to be reactive comma components and then that makes it happy. Now when we have, this is going to be a javascript module, which means we're actually going to export something from this, so we're actually going to export our class from this. We'll say export default class rep log APP and then over in Rep log react. We can delete that class and instead say import rep log app from that slash rep log slash rep log app 

and then it's not important, but you notice now we're not. We're no longer using the component so we can get rid of that. So this is just a little bit of organization and then when we go back and refresh it works. And actually this is a very important moment because we're already starting to create a structure of how our application is going to look. We have a entry file and this is the actual file that we. This is the first file that's actually loaded for our application and typically these files all look very similar. They're main and really only job is to actually render your top level components. In this case, this thing called Rep log app, that's actually rep log app is eventually going to render our entire application, so we're always going to have one component that is around everything else, which is why we have called the Rep La, why we've called this rep log app. Our jet from here is going to be built to build this out to build the rest of our application, but first we need to talk about any super duper important thing and react call prompts.