# Static App

Coming soon...

What am I really big goals with this tutorial is to give you a 

repeatable path for building a react applications that you can get something done and get it looking right and we're actually already starting to follow that path. The Path always starts with an entry file in the entry file. Doesn't really do anything else other than render a react component into an element. Then in that rack component, right lights do first is actually build out an entirely static version of my page so you can see here we are building some rep log rose, but I've just kind of built those as some static data for now. So we're going to build the entire Ui statically first and then we're going to start making parts of it dynamic. 

Right now, the only thing that we're actually missing from our application from a Ui perspective is this form down here. So I'm actually going to go into our templates, go back to index dot html dot twig, and you can see the form before I actually came from a included template underscore form. So I'm going to open that and this is just a normal html form, which is perfect, so I'm going to copy that closed that template, go back into rep log app and under the table, well paced that form hello form, except scroll up a little bit because we do need to clean a couple things up. A forum class doesn't need this jazz class anymore and that was used by the old javascript a get rid of the data. Same thing with the data you were l and before I had disabled html, five validation. I'm actually going to rehab that html. Five validation will at least thanks to these required attributes. Give me some quick validation to make sure that the form isn't filled out blank. Cool, so let's try that. Football or refresh and awesome form shows up 

except the styling is off a little bit. If you look down here, this is a little bit more spacing. Then this spot, there's also another problem which is warning, use the default value or value props on select. Instead of setting selected on an option, we're gonna. Talk more about reacting. How react works was formed later, but basically the problem down here is actually on this selected attribute. This is illegal and react because react actually wants to help manage your form and you'll see what that means later. So for now I'm actually just going to delete that selected, but if you did want to, that could, but you could still make an option selected by using the default, uh, attribute which would actually be applied on the select to say which of the options you want to select, but for the most part, don't worry about that yet, but I am interested about this white space problem. If you actually inspect element on the form itself, then I'll go to the form and right click on that and say edit as html. You can see that this actually renders all as one big line with no space in it. That's a property of how react renders its components. It doesn't render extra white space in 99 point nine percent of the time. You don't care except the problem is that we actually want a little bit of white space. This is an inline elements, so the online element is actually how we were getting 

the different styling behavior between the fields. What do you mean is we actually do want there to be a space between the DEV and another space down here, so unfortunately this is a one little hack that you have to do with react. It doesn't happen very often, but we can do is we can actually use javascript to print an extra space. They're ugly Hacky, I know, but honestly it doesn't come up very often and now when we refresh, Yup. Now we have our spaces there. Also, while I'm. While I'm here, I'm going to make one other adjustments so far. We're using webpack encore in the background and we've been running it with yarn run encore Dev, Dash, dash watch, which means every time we make an update to a file that actually writes out the fresh javascripts, there's another option that you can use an encore called Dev server. This one is a bit different. It actually loads up a new kind of fake web server and now we request all our assets from that web server. 

If you go back over and refresh, you shouldn't notice any difference in our symphony application, but thanks to our setup with encore in the previous tutorial, if you view the page source, suddenly all of our assets are actually being prefixed with local host 8,000. This is that web server that was just spun up by Webpack and it lowers the assets dynamically from there. This means that the assets aren't actually being physically written to our our file system temporarily. We're just grabbing them from that server. The reason I'm doing this is that as your application gets more complex, occasionally you can make a change in refresh before webpack has been able to write the files, but if you use the webpack Dev and you refresh too quickly, your browser will actually wait for the CSS or javascript files to be rendered before it actually loads the page. There's a couple other minor differences, but it's not really too important, but this is how I want to use it. Anyways. Back to the task at hand. Our goal was to build our entire application in static html and we've done that. 

There is a little bit of fanciness to our application because we learned that we can actually pass prompts into our components and then use those to render things dynamically, so that means that our react component is kind of dynamic because we can control different parts of how it looks and we get past other props in from outside of our component, but once our component is rendered, it's static. What I mean is once I rep log APP has been rendered with with heart true or with heart false. That's it. It's rendered, it's stuck on the screen. Of course, the whole point of using react is that we want the Ui to change as data changes. We want to be able to update some data and have certain things in the Ui just magically update. We're going to do that with something very, very important called state and that's what we need to learn about next.