# SASS Loader

Look, I've just read this awesome article talking about how cool SASS is, so instead of my boring old main.css, I want to turn this into a SASS file. You know what? I'm going to rename it to main.scss, and then down here, I'm going to use a really fancy syntax. Instead of having these button log in dash hover, it's a tiny bit of duplication. I'm going to use the &:hover, &:focus syntax. That will ultimately dump the same CSS, but you know, I get to save a little bit of code here, in my SASS file.

Of course, now that I've renamed this file, I need to go in my js, layout.js file, and change this to be main.scss. Now, what do you think is going to happen when webpack sees this import? You can probably guess. Well, let's go over webpack and find out. Yep. It's that exact error we've been seeing: module parsed fail, unexpected token. You may need an appropriate loader to handle this file. We already have loaders for CSS fonts and images. We do not have a loader for SASS, but adding it is super easy.

Google for SASS loader, and then let's get it installed. You can see it actually needs SASS loader and a library called Node-SASS. I'll copy both of those. Then head over [inaudible 00:01:54] last terminal and run yarn add SASS loader node-sass---. In our webpack.config.js file, this is going to be super simple. We already have a loader for CSS files. We're going to keep that. Now, I just need a loader for SASS files, so I'll copy the CSS loader. Paste it right after. Then what do we actually use for the loader? Well, just add a third loader on the bottom, SASS loader, and that's it.

You see, the SASS loader will be called first, which will convert the SASS into CSS. Then, the CSS loader will convert that to a JavaScript object, and finally, the style loader will add that to the page. Just make sure you actually update the tasks to be SCSS. So nice. Flip back to your webpack tab. Hit control C and rerun webpack. No errors. When we refresh the site, it looks great. Yeah, in just a couple lines of code, you've now unlocked SASS wherever you want it. I won't show you how to do the same thing with less, because it's exactly the same.

