# ecmascript es6 harmony

Well, hello, guys. In our first episode of JavaScript, we dove into a lot of really deep things in the way that JavaScript works. I ignored a huge, big, gigantic ting in the JavaScript world. There is a new JavaScript version with lots of new stuff in it. In fact, it's not even new anymore, which is all the more reason that we need to understand what it brings to the table so that we can ultimately do cool things like use Front-end frameworks, like React JS.

First before we start, as always, code along with me. Use the download button on this page to download the course code. When you unzip it, there'll be a start directory which has the same cole that I have here. Check out the Read Me to get set up.

Last up will be to open a terminal, go into the directory and run PHP bin/console server:run to load up the built in web server. Let's go over here and go to local host:8000. To log in, use Ron Fergundy, password pump up. As a reminder, this is our application, lift stuff, a way for us to keep track of all the things that we're lifting during the day so we can track our exercise. For our purposes, this is a symphony app, but everything that we've been doing lives inside a single Java Script file called Rep Log App.

Let's get back to this brand new Java Script version. As you probably know, PHP came out with a new major version, version seven, a couple years ago. This was a really big deal because they gave us new functions but also new language constructs like typed return arguments. Obviously, every language has new versions and Java Script is no different. Actually, Java Script is totally different. When a new version of PHP comes out, the creators of PHP, they write the code. They release PHP. We all download it. We put it on our servers and we happily use it. Done. When a new version of Java Script comes out, well, what does that mean? The Chrome browser, it writes its own Java Script engine. Internet Explorer writes its own Java Script engine. Of course, there's node JS which is it's own Java Script engine. There's not one Java Script engine.

In reality, Java Script is nothing more than a standard. When they release a new version of Java Script, it's actually an agreed upon rule set that says, "Here are the functions and language constructs that we think Java Script should have. Now, quick, everyone go and implement these." In fact, what I'm talking about is not Java Script. The official name for it is  ECMAScript, which is a group that gets together and agrees on these standards.

Now in 2015, after a really long hiatus, it had been five years since they released the last major version, Java Script came out with a new version with a lot of stuff. What is it called? Yeah, that's complicated. It has at least three names. The first is ES6. The second is ECMAScript 2015. It's also called Harmony. Some of its friends call it Larry. The official, correct name of it is ECMAScript 2015, though you'll even hear me call it ES6 because it's the sixth version of ECMAScript.

As we're going to see in this tutorial, it gives us, of course, lots of new functions and cool stuff. Most importantly, it gives us new language constructs. In fact, so many that if you look at a ... at Java Script that uses all the new features, it might not even look like Java Script to you. It might be totally unrecognizable. That's not okay because you and I, we need to be able to understand and write modern Java Script. In fact, speaking about new versions, after ECMAScript 2015 came out, there's already ECMAScript 2016. The Java Script Language keeps moving forward.

Our goal is to dive into that important stuff so that we can ultimately not be intimidated by the new ECMAScript. Now, of course, we are going to have some browser compatibility problems because when they come out with a new version of Java Script, not all of our users might be using the latest version of their browsers that have the latest version of ECMAScript. More on that at the end of this tutorial. Let's start with my first absolute favorite game changing feature of ECMAScript 2015: arrow functions.
